Smp relnotes 2023 03 10 doc 2765 (#992)
harness/developer-hub: release-notes/self-managed-enterprise-edition.md

The release notes below are only for Self-Managed Enterprise Edition. NextGen SaaS release notes are available [here](/release-notes/whats-new) and FirstGen SaaS release notes are available [here](/docs/first-gen/firstgen-release-notes/harness-saa-s-release-notes).
:::

## March 10, 2023, version 78426

This release includes the following Harness module and component versions.

| **Name** | **Version** |
| :-- | :--: |
| NG Manager | 78426 |
| CI Manager | 2804 |
| Pipeline Service | 1.21.13 |
| Platform Service | 78202 |
| Access Control Service | 78001 |
| Change Data Capture | 78426 |
| Test Intelligence Service | release-149 |
| NG UI | 0.339.19 |
| LE NG | 67500 |

### New features and enhancements

- The Redisson client library has been upgraded to version 3.17.7 across all services for enhanced performance and bug resolution. This update will not affect any business operations. (PL-31136)

> - The [Role Assignment](https://apidocs.harness.io/tag/Role-Assignments/#operation/getFilteredRoleAssignmentByScopeList) API now includes the principal's name and email address in the response.(PL-31064, ZD-36050)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [Role Assignment](https://apidocs.harness.io/tag/Role-Assignments/#operation/getFilteredRoleAssignmentByScopeList) API now includes the principal's name and email address in the response. (PL-31064, ZD-36050)
```

> - Harness now supports the integration of GCP Secrets Manager for all users. For more information, see [Add a Google Cloud Secret Manager](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Security/add-a-google-cloud-secret-manager). (PL-31051)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Harness now supports the integration of GCP Secrets Manager for all users. For more information, go to [Add a Google Cloud Secret Manager](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Security/add-a-google-cloud-secret-manager). (PL-31051)
```

- The following role-assignments are removed for all the existing users across all the accounts:
  - Account Viewer - All Account Level Resources: This was a role-assignment within the account scope and has been removed for all the users. This does not apply in the following scenarios:
  - If an account has enabled the feature flag ACCOUNT_BASIC_ROLE_ONLY.
  - If an account does not have the Account Viewer - All Account Level Resources role-assignment for the default user group All Account Users.
  - Organization Viewer - All Organization Level Resources: This was a role-assignment within the organization scope and has been removed for all the users.
  - Project Viewer - All Project Level Resources: This was a role-assignment within the project scope and has been removed for all the users.
  

>   For more information, go to [Default User Group](/docs/platform/role-based-access-control/harness-default-user-groups/).	(PL-30916)	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For more information, go to [Default User Group](/docs/platform/role-based-access-control/harness-default-user-groups/). (PL-30916)
```
I think there was a tab instead of a space

- In the SCIM API, the Groups endpoint returns all the user groups associated with an account. The ResourceTypes endpoint also returns incorrect information. A code enhancement has fixed this issue. The Groups endpoint returns only externally managed user groups and the ResourceTypes endpoint returns details as per the schema. (PL-30862)

- Migrated ng-manager and manager delegate request flows to v2. This fixes an issue where Kryo using CompatibleFieldSerializer along with references set to `true` did not behave correctly. This also fixes some backward-ompatibility issues faced in serialization/de-serialization if there is any change in object structure before and after. To avoid such issues, we are gradually migrating to all delegate request/response flows to use kryo references set to `false`. (PL-30632)

- You can now add policy sets under the **Advanced** section of each step. (PIE-7794)

  In this way, you can validate step outputs generated during pipeline execution without explicitly requesting a payload. Policy sets receive the steps and their outputs as payloads, with a pre-defined schema for every step.

> - Users can now move Inline pipelines to Git.	(PIE-7392)	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users can now move Inline pipelines to Git. (PIE-7392)
```

- Updated the delegate-token and documentation URLs shown in the UI when setting up a new delegate. (DEL-5905)
  
  ![](./static/del-5905-1.png)

  ![](./static/del-5905-2.png)

- The UI and workflow for creating delegates has been updated and improved. (DEL-5551)	
  
- Added the `helm repo update` command to the delegate installer. The command is included in the instructions that apply the delegate manifest. This change reduces the chance of retrieving the wrong file from the repository. (DEL-5540)
  
- [Pipeline execution status links](/docs/continuous-integration/use-ci/view-your-builds/viewing-builds) in Git pull requests now direct you to the associated stage within the pipeline, rather than the pipeline as a whole. (CI-6813)

> * This release includes two new CI steps for integrating your Harness CI pipelines with GitHub Actions and Bitrise. The following steps are available in Harness Cloud build infrastructures only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This release includes two new CI steps for integrating your Harness CI pipelines with GitHub Actions and Bitrise. The following steps are available in Harness Cloud build infrastructures only.
```

  
  Now, the pipeline can be deployed and input validation is performed during execution.

- YAML schema validation for environments. (CDS-48947)
  
  We have added YAML schema validation to environment entities. Similar validation already exists for our pipeline YAML, but environments are separate entities.
  If you try to save invalid YAML you will get an error like this:
  ```bash
  Invalid yaml: $.environment.overrides.manifests[0].manifest.spec: is missing but it is required.
  ```

- Improved error message when API calls fail while listing Helm **Chart Version** in **Run Pipeline**. (CDS-48436)
  
  If **Chart Version** is a runtime input, when you run the pipeline you are required to select a version from the **Chart Version** dropdown. If the Harness API is unable to fetch any versions, an improved error message is displayed.

  ![picture 21](static/8ca12a2c84cf95499024fd11b11c055bc13ec9de4e0e767ae6f8422aeb596d91.png)  
  
  Hover over the error message to see the full message.

- The **Referenced by** tab in the Connector UI now shows the environment name.	(CDS-45347)	

   ![](static/cds-45347.png)

### Fixed issues

> - Fixed a back-end issue that could result in timeouts when a user tries to sign up for the Harness Community.	(PLG-1860)	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a back-end issue that could result in timeouts when a user tries to sign up for the Harness Community. (PLG-1860)
```

  
- Implemented a fix to ensure correct handling of horizontal scrolling in the side navigation. (PG-31140)

- Fixed an issue where a user account that is managed externally via SCIM can be deleted from a user group that is not managed externally.	(PL-31125, ZD-39358)	

- SCIM-managed users can now be removed from organisations and projects.	(PL-31104, ZD-39109, ZD-39110)	

> - Fixed an issue with SCIM where user email was added in uppercase causing issues with SAML authentication.	(PL-31038)	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue with SCIM where user email was added in uppercase causing issues with SAML authentication. (PL-31038)
```

- Fixed an issue where a new user, on receiving an email invite and clicking on it, gets an INVALID_REQUEST error. Users should be able to complete their sign-ups with no errors.	(PL-30993, ZD-38937, ZD-39340, ZD-39510, ZD-39716)

> - Fixed an issue where User Group details pages in Project and Organization scope weren't opening properly when opened using "Open In New Tab". This was due to loss of "parentScope" query Param. Adding the "parentScope" queryParam fixed the issue.	(PL-30911)	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where User Group details pages in Project and Organization scope weren't opening properly when opened using "Open In New Tab". This was due to loss of "parentScope" query Param. Adding the "parentScope" queryParam fixed the issue. (PL-30911)
```

- Fixed a UI issue in CCM that caused the message "We cannot perform your request at the moment. Please try again" to appear in the UI. (PL-30816)	

> - Added missing audit entries for CRUD operations on the EnvironmentGroup resources	(PL-30779)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added missing audit entries for CRUD operations on the EnvironmentGroup resources. (PL-30779)
```

- The Harness APIs return a status code of HTTP 400 instead of HTTP 401 for an invalid or expired token. An enhancement to the code has fixed this issue.(PL-30757, ZD-38494, ZD-38547)

> - Fixed a UI issue where the resource-group name and summary were collapsing in the Resource Group page.	(PL-30691)	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a UI issue where the resource-group name and summary were collapsing in the Resource Group page. (PL-30691)
```

> - The project selector component selects multiple projects with the same project name across different organization IDs. The project selection code has been enhanced to select projects corresponding to specific organization IDs.	Updated error message in case there is a delete/update of externally managed user group from Harness. (PL-30663)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The project selector component selects multiple projects with the same project name across different organization IDs. The project selection code has been enhanced to select projects corresponding to specific organization IDs. Updated error message in case there is a delete/update of externally managed user group from Harness. (PL-30663)
```

  
  The project selection code has been enhanced to select projects corresponding to specific organization IDs.

- The error message displayed when creating the GitHub connector and selecting **Harness Platform** as the connectivity option is not clear and informative. (PL-29953)
	
- Entities in Harness can now have `/` for the Name. (PL-29929)
  
- The default secret manager does not appear in the **Secrets Manager** list when there are more than 100 secret managers. A code enhancement has fixed this issue. The default secret manager is now displayed if you enter its name in the **Secrets Manager** field. (PL-29635)
  
- Deletion of vault connectors does not delete the corresponding perpetual tasks. A code enhancement has fixed this issue.  (PL-27621)
  
 - In pipeline execution, the YAML builder does not support read-only operations and throws an error.   A code enhancement has fixed this issue. (PIE-8040)
  
 - The pipeline execution details page does not have a **View Compiled YAML** option. This option is now available on the execution page. (PIE-7967)
  

>  - Creating an input set results in an error. A code enhancement has fixed this issue.  (PIE-7849, ZD-39180, ZD-39240, ZD-39250)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Creating an input set results in an error. A code enhancement has fixed this issue. (PIE-7849, ZD-39180, ZD-39240, ZD-39250)
```

  
  ![](./static/inputset-create-error.png)

- Pipelines with input sets and triggers chained together do not display input set fields correctly. An enhancement to the code has fixed this issue. (PIE-7681)
  
- If an execution has a matrix strategy, the text on the pipeline execution page overlaps. An adjustment to the height of the matrix wrapper has fixed this issue. (PIE-7429)
  
- API PUT operations for Bitbucket SaaS and on-prem connectors return an incorrect status code when there are no changes. A modification to the error message to display an appropriate explanation of the error has fixed this issue. (PIE-6230)
 
- Fixed an issue where uploading a CSV with a large number of targets could cause the dialog box to overflow. (FFM-6627)		

> - Fixed an issue to ensure that the Feature Flags SDK metrics endpoint is configured.	(FFM-6240)	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue to ensure that the Feature Flags SDK metrics endpoint is configured. (FFM-6240)
```

- Persisted currently selected Feature Flags environment when navigating away from Feature Flags module.	(FFM-6221)

> - The complete button at the end of the feature flags onboarding flow was always enabled. Now it will be disabled until the user receives a successful evaluation. This issue has been resolved.	(FFM-5987)	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **Complete** button at the end of the feature flags onboarding flow was always enabled. Now it is disabled until the user receives a successful evaluation. (FFM-5987)
```

  
- Resolved a problem that caused SCM log information to be displayed in the Watcher. The information was redirected to the delegate `slf4j` stream for display in the delegate logs. (DEL-5744, ZD-36125)

- Added error checking to ensure that delegates immediately reject tasks that are not supported. (DEL-5602)

- With the feature flag `NEW_LEFT_NAV_BAR` enabled, you can view build details at the project level without drilling down into individual modules. When viewing build details from the project level, the **Commits** tab produced a `404` error. This is fixed. (CI-6817)

- The Harness UI now shows a detailed warning when a CI build uses unsupported versions of any CI build images. (CI-6721)
	

> - Improved error message for git test connection.	(CI-6689)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved error message for git test connection. (CI-6689)
```

  - RepoName will now be rendered in Manifest Details section while adding manifest itself irrespective of whether connector is expression or runtime. (CDS-53309, ZD-39859)

  - Configuring Bitbucket Connector as expression/runtime input should be an option to provide the repo name (CDS-51247, ZD-38985)

- The Azure connector was connecting to the US endpoint for Azure instead of the US Government Azure endpoint. (CDS-52251	ZD-39474, ZD-39791)

- The Kubernetes [Apply step](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/cd-execution/kubernetes-executions/deploy-manifests-using-apply-step) does not work with inline values overrides.  Overriding inline values using the Harness file store was not working. We have incorporated a new method to handle this use case and it is working. (CDS-52167) 

- There is a [Shell Script step](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/cd-execution/cd-general-steps/using-shell-scripts/) discrepancy when adding multiple steps. The template case was missing for calculating the step count using of the default step name. Now a template case for calculating correct step count of the default name is added. (CDS-52120)
  

> - When special characters are used for a trigger **Name** field, the info message looks different than the actual name entered. This issue was happening because users were allowed to use restricted special characters for the trigger **Name** field. We have updated the validation for the **Name** field so now users will not be able to use restricted special characters.   (CDS-52105)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When special characters are used for a trigger **Name** field, the info message looks different than the actual name entered. This issue was happening because users were allowed to use restricted special characters for the trigger **Name** field. We have updated the validation for the **Name** field so now users will not be able to use restricted special characters. (CDS-52105)
```

- The Custom Approval step doesn't show logs and output variables. (CDS-51347, ZD-39060)

  Custom approvals did not show console logs for every shell script execution. This was happening due to closing the associated log stream when the shell script execution succeeds or fails. Hence, only the first trial was logged on the console.

  This issue has been resolved. Custom approvals now have shell script execution logs associated with each retry of execution made even when the custom approval is in a waiting state. This will help users to know the shell script output associated with each retry and understand why an approval is in a particular state.

- The [Email step](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/cd-technical-reference/cd-gen-ref-category/email_step/) is sending an error even though the email is sent. (CDS-50952)

  In the **Email** step, when there is an invalid address in the **to** setting and a valid email in the **cc** setting, mail is sent to the cc address, but the step is marked as failed. This has been fixed. The Email step is marked as success if emails are sent to the cc address.

> - The **Clear All** option in the filter on the **Deployments** page is not working for the **Deployment Type** option.	(CDS-50924)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **Clear All** option in the filter on the **Deployments** page is not working for the **Deployment Type** option. (CDS-50924)
```

  ![picture 47](static/3eab70ec71e953d8d0d3401a3176bfb0b646489c306b54866fbcd3f9144db1fb.png)  	

- Null pointer exception occurred when checking the secret file used by a secret in the Command step (in SSH deployments). (CDS-50388)

  We have added null pointer checks for the decrypted value secret.

- Implemented a fix to make instances sync possible for account-level agents.	(CDS-50346)	

- An incorrect error code is displayed when a template is not found. (CDS-50337)
  
  The templates REST GET call was throwing a 400 Bad Request with error code `INVALID_REQUEST`. We have updated this error code to `RESOURCE_NOT_FOUND_EXCEPTION`. This is in line with best practices.

- Added an **Anonymous** credential option in [OCI Helm Registry connector](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/connectors/connect-to-an-artifact-repo/). (CDS-50173, ZD-38625)
  
  The OCI Helm Registry connector supported anonymous credentials but there was no UI option. This issue has been resolved. The OCI Helm Registry now has an **Anonymous** option. This enables you to connect to public OCI registries from Azure, AWS, JFrog, etc., and deploy Helm charts from these registries.

> - Unable to see the Harness file store at the projects level.	(CDS-50139)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Unable to see the Harness file store at the projects level. (CDS-50139)
```

  The [Harness file store](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/cd-services/cd-services-general/add-inline-manifests-using-file-store/) is a hierarchical file manager in Harness for managing configuration files used in pipelines.

  The file store was not showing up at the projects level. This has been fixed and now you can use the file store in your projects.

  ![file store](static/e6e71ed5ce6113726c8385b19408341220d153944a0683dbc76614e7a6aeed9d.png)

> - Runtime **Tag** setting discrepancy when switching between YAML and Visual views.	(CDS-50033, ZD-39719)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Runtime **Tag** setting discrepancy when switching between YAML and Visual views. (CDS-50033, ZD-39719)
```

- **Environment** is not highlighted in the navigation when **Environment Groups** is selected. (CDS-49922)
  
  The route URLs for environments and environment groups under the CD module are updated. When you select **Environment Groups**, the navigation now highlights **Environments**.
  
  **User action:** If any bookmarks have been stored with the older URLs, they will need to be updated. Simply navigate to **Environment Groups** and bookmark the page.

- The PagerDuty notifications are not showing start and end dates for pipeline/stage execution. (CDS-49852)

  The PagerDuty template was using the wrong placeholder for [PagerDuty notifications](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/cd-advanced/cd-notifications/notify-users-of-pipeline-events/#option-pagerduty-notifications). The template is now modified to use the correct placeholder name.
	
- The deployment freeze recurrence time should be greater than the start time. (CDS-49840)
  
  Harness was letting users set a recurrence time in the past. We have added a check to prevent users from creating a freeze window with a recurrence time that is before than the current time.

> - Fixing a service referencing a template causes a save error.	(CDS-49817)
>   When making the service a runtime input within the template and providing this as a fixed value when using the template, it fails to save.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixing a service referencing a template causes a save error. (CDS-49817)

  When making the service a runtime input within the template and providing this as a fixed value when using the template, it fails to save.
```

  
  We have enhanced error handling when fetching artifacts from Artifactory. Now we tell users to use **Runtime input**.
  
  ![picture 44](static/30462d87d71128c2d3b4026b5bdd69c83db1a9163d0321165f0eaeba145ead44.png)

- Deployment freeze was missing a check on timezone and accepting the wrong value in YAML. (CDS-48311)
  
  Now there is a check to validate if the timezone entered in the freeze window is correct.

- After fixing runtime input settings in the pipeline **Run** form YAML, users cannot run the pipeline. (CDS-48009)
  
  The pipeline **Run** form accepts Visual and YAML entry. When you entered runtime input values in the YAML the **Run** button was disabled.
  
  Now you can submit runtime input values as Visual or YAML entries and run the pipeline.

- Settings in **Run Pipeline** were being reset when settings were selected for the second stage. (CDS-47362)
  
  The **Run Pipeline** settings were getting reset when a user selected a new environment in another stage. We were updating all the settings with older values for services or environments. This caused the completed settings values to be cleared. This has been fixed.

> - Implemented fix to ensure correct regex validation when specifying multiple artifacts in a CD pipeline.	(CDS-47263)	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Implemented fix to ensure correct regex validation when specifying multiple artifacts in a CD pipeline. (CDS-47263)
```

  
  Validation has been added in Harness Approval steps to validate the scopes of the user groups against the scope in which the Approval step is created. The step is invalid if the user groups in the step have a higher scope than the scope where the Approval step is created.

- Approval step Slack and email notifications using identifiers instead of names. (CDS-29134)
  
  Harness Approval notifications using Slack and email were sending identifiers instead of readable names.
  
  For example, for the org, project, or triggered by information, identifiers are sent instead of names.
  
  This issue has been resolved. The notification now contains names, emails, etc., instead of identifiers. The email of the user triggering the Approval step displays and the org and project names display.

  Email example:
  
  ![picture 33](static/fd00397b44a5d04ebd9d4c4e1c2a9493281147a26db13775759308d5e68ea511.png)  

  Slack example:

  ![picture 34](static/1bcafae790e255b341562a3e60ea2d937bfaac72605bf0eb41b789563540762e.png)

> * Hourly data on the **Perspectives** page showed an incorrect billing amount for multiple accounts. CloudFunction was unable to delete the existing records but continued ingesting a new entry in clusterDataHourly in BigQuery. (CCM-10711)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Hourly data on the **Perspectives** page showed an incorrect billing amount for multiple accounts. CloudFunction was unable to delete the existing records but continued ingesting a new entry in clusterDataHourly in BigQuery. (CCM-10711)
```

  This issue is fixed. Now, the Instance_Billing_Hourly job execution is limited to 5 times per minute to avoid CloudFunction failure.

> * The total costs displayed on the **Overview** page and the **license-util** page (or API) were incorrect in accounts with at least one Azure connector. (CCM-10678, ZD-38694)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The total costs displayed on the **Overview** page and the **license-util** page (or API) were incorrect in accounts with at least one Azure connector. (CCM-10678, ZD-38694)
```

  A bug fix in the ingestion of aggregated costs for Azure resolved this issue. 	

> * The cost details API was returning only the AWS account ID without the account name. Now, the API returns both account name and ID. (CCM-10573, ZD-38510)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The cost details API was returning only the AWS account ID without the account name. Now, the API returns both account name and ID. (CCM-10573, ZD-38510)
```
